A couple of weeks ago, I got this DM in
my Instagram and it was from Kyle Bruce
and he said to me, "Hey, check out the
deadlift that I did today. What do you
reckon? Is there do you think there's
room for improvement? Can you critique
it?" I'm like, "Okay, sure. Now that I
think about it, what would I do?" And I
thought, "You know what? I'm going to
deep dive into this." So, I really
analyzed a few things. Firstly, was my
assumptions of his weightlifting without
actually speaking to him about it. It's
just my knowledge on weightlifting. And
I'm not a high level weightlifter at
all, but it's my understanding of the
difference between the way that a
weightlifter would set up for a clean
versus how I teach a deadlift. Well, you
know what? Let's do this. So, on my
Instagram video, I reckon you should
play it on this video as well, Musty.
What do you reckon? So, they have the
full context of exactly the deadlift
that he did and my breakdown of it. Kyle
Bruce is Australia's number one
weightlifter. He weighs 89 kg and he
just deadlifted at 275 kg for fun. no
belt, no straps, and a weightlifting
bar, which is stiffer than the deadlift
bar that I use in comp. So, it's a
little bit harder. He came in and he
completely disrespected that weight.
Now, I know Kyle and I know that he
doesn't deadlift. He does clean pulls
and that's different to a deadlift. And
the reason weightlifterss don't usually
deadlift is because it's a highly
fatiguing exercise and weightlifterss
usually train every day. And heavy
deadlifts are going to interfere with
regular training, which is daily squats,
cleaning jerks, and snatches. So, what's
the difference between a clean pull and
a deadlift? The clean pull imitates the
position that they do a clean jerk in,
which is in a slightly wider stance and
a more upright position than the
deadlift, so that they can catch that
clean in an upright position. They also
do a couple of other things that you
don't do in a deadlift, which is getting
[clears throat] up on their toes and
shrugging the weight at the top. This is
good technique for a clean, but not good
for a deadlift. And he did exactly this
during this 275 kg deadlift, which shows
that he's extremely strong, but that
movement was inefficient. He needs to
keep his feet firmly planted. And I'm
going to show you how to make this even
easier for next time. Let's start with
the stance. It's nice and wide, but that
also means that he needs to grip the bar
nice and wide, which means that his arms
are shorter and he needs to travel
further. Bring the stance in an inch or
two so we can bring the grip in an inch
or two, which will allow for his arms to
hang straight down and reduce that range
of motion. The next thing that he does
is a personal preference for his style
of weightlifting, he legit just walks
straight up to the bar and rips it off
the ground. I love the aggression, but
the problem is that if we have a look at
the body position when he starts the
pool and compare it to the position when
the bar leaves the ground, you'll see
that his knees have extended a lot,
which takes his quads out of the
equation and more of the load onto his
back. Now, backs are very strong, but
combining his back with his legs is even
stronger, and weightlifterss are known
for having very strong legs. Here's Kyle
high bar squatting 260 kg for two reps.
And if he took his time to take the
slack out of the bar, he'd be able to
keep his hips lower and allow him to use
his strong legs, which is the same thing
that we did for Thor Bjöson, which took
him from a grinding 450 kg deadlift to
an easy 510. Last error, he's leaning
back too much on that lockout, which
places his spine in a slightly extended
position under load, which unnecessarily
loads the facet joints. Can you see that
his knees are locked? This is what
causes him to lean back. He needs to
lock his knees. Doing this will allow
him to finish the lift in a completely
vertical and stacked position. And one
of my predictions was that if he
followed these cues, he'd have done 300
kg just as easily. If I just set him up
in the normal way, it's like he doesn't
need to get stronger to pull 300 kg off
the ground. Like I think he's strong
enough for 300 kg. But these are the
bars that we're going to be using. So he
uses a weightlifting bar. That's what he
did the 275 kg deadlift on a
weightlifting bar, which is a really
nice barbell, but compared to the
deadlifting bar, the deadlift bar is
longer and thinner. So when you put the
plates on the end, there's more bend.
And what happens is especially with 300
kilo or you did 275 with 275 kg
>> the bar will bend about an inch.
>> So it's a it's about a 1 in higher
starting position. The lowest point is
the hardest point. And that's a bit of
an advantage if you do it correctly. If
you use the technique correctly and
learn to take the slack out of the bar,
you will start from an inch higher which
is an advantage but it's not cheating
because that's what they use in deadlift
competitions.
>> Wow. So, there's a massive difference in
the body,
>> the length difference, and the It's a
slightly thinner.
>> That's not going to whip as much.
>> It's not going to whip as much. But what
I want to do
>> is I want to get you to show us first
and explain to us because like I said in
my video breakdown, I made a lot of
assumptions on what I think you're
trying to do with your with your clean
>> and how it looks like you're doing the
same thing with the deadlift and you
shouldn't. So,
>> instead of making assumptions, what I
would love for you to do because just so
that you know, I didn't introduce him.
So Kle Kyle Bruce competed in the
Olympic
>> Paris 2024 89 kg.
>> Okay.
>> And are you number one weightlifter in
Australia or what?
>> Yes. Number one weightlifter in
Australia for about half. You know what
I mean? So you're going to learn from
the best weightlifter we have in this
country which is pretty sick. Um so
that's what I'm going to get you to do.
Show me. Exactly. So how would you warm
up with a clean? Let's not talk
deadlifts yet. Let's talk cleans.
>> Let's do what I know [laughter] cuz I
don't know that. Right.
>> Yeah. So with a clean, the way I
approached that deadlift was I just
thought I was going to go for a clean.
So, when I'm doing a clean, I'm going to
make sure that my grip is a little bit
past shoulder width apart. My toes are
pointing out slightly. When I'm in my
start position, I'm trying to use my
legs as much as possible, but I'm also
trying to keep my chest out. I'm not
trying to round my back or anything. I'm
trying to use my legs and keep my
position. When I'm going for the clean,
I'm keeping close to my shins, close to
my thighs, and I'm getting contact about
mid to upper thigh, going up to my toes,
and then dropping under into that clean
position. So, if I'm going to do it in
normal motion,
>> I'm here
like so. And I guess that's kind of just
how I went about dead. Just picked it up
like that.
>> Looks awesome. It's a clean and and
you're the best at showing us how to
make. But what I might even do is a lot
of the times when I'm doing demos, empty
barbell, the body doesn't behave as
nicely as it should. So
>> do you reckon we can put on just maybe
warm up a little bit with the clean?
>> Let's just put 100 kg on. We don't need
to warm up. Let's put two on like that.
Okay, let's do that.
>> 60 kg or even 20 kg isn't enough for the
bar to sit down. So, it's the same with
weightlifting as well. You need the
weight to put you in the right position.
>> Yeah, that's right. So, you know, if we
got to do 300 kg today, we got to try
it. [laughter]
>> We need 300 kg to get you in position.
Unfortunately for you,
>> show us your cleans, man.
>> Give me Give me a breakdown of what you
So, when I'm setting up for my clean,
again, like I said, hands shoulder width
apart. I'm getting my grip. I'm using
the hook grip. Um, that's what I did on
my deadlift. I don't know if we do mixed
or not in deadlift.
>> Stronger. The hook grip. I reckon the
hook grip is stronger for a deadlift.
>> Oh, it is. Yep.
>> Okay. All right. Well, in weightlifting,
we hook grip everything cuz
unfortunately we can't really mix grip
it like that. So, hook gripping the
barbell again. My toes are pointed out.
I'm kicking my chest out like so. Using
my legs
and pushing the bar up like so.
So, one more time. Again, here using my
legs, shoulders over
and pushing up like that.
>> That's how clean. Real nice. Now, I used
in my video an example. I just found a
200 kg clean that you've done in the
past. What's your what's your record?
Just clean. What's your clean?
>> 210 kg.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, that's 100 kg is uh it's
really easy for you to do that.
>> Should be okay.
>> Now, now, okay, something that I said
about your programming is that
weightlifterss typically don't deadlift
because deadlifting is very heavy
exercise and it's more fatiguing and
weightlifterss typically train with a
much higher frequency.
>> And I absolutely agree with that
statement. Some people might like so
many different ways to skin a cat in
weightlifting, right? But the deadlift
itself is quite a taxing movement and we
do more clean pulling. We do variations
of that. We don't really do deadlifts
too heavy because that's going to
fatigue ourselves which is going to
affect our snatch and clean jerk. And
the most important thing as an Olympic
weightlifter is to be strong in the
snatch and clean jerk. We use the squat,
the pull, some deadlifts, not too heavy
as accessories, as strength work to
facilitate those two movements cuz
that's all we really care about.
>> Good.
>> So I wasn't wrong with what I said. It
was pretty much exactly what I thought.
You were right. Don't worry about the
pool.
>> You would do more clean pulls than
actual deadlifts. Is that right?
>> Yes. Absolutely. Yeah. I I do do some
like for example, I might do clean pulls
at 90 95% on my best clean. So 200 kg
for example, and then I might put 210 kg
on the barbell and just do maybe some
double deadlifts, moving nice and fast.
But the main focus for me is speed. I
want to move the barbell as quickly as
possible. As soon as that bar starts to
slow down, well then I know that that's
going to affect my recovery and I don't
want to do that. So that's probably why
I'm not deadlifting. Like I said before,
I did the 275. The heaviest pull I did
was 200 kg.
>> Yeah.
>> The last three weeks I haven't touched
more than 150 kg. So, we'll see how we
go today.
>> That [laughter] that makes a lot of
sense to me. And um this is exactly
>> um the point that I want to make to to
our video today is actually teach people
how to program for weightlifting versus
programming for powerlifting. Because I
program for deadlifts once a week
>> and in a lot of my elite level
deadlifters, it's it's once a week but
only once a Fortnite heavy.
>> Wow. So heavy deadlift once because it's
so damn fatiguing.
>> Exactly.
>> And how many days a week do you train?
>> I do double sessions on Monday,
Wednesday, Friday, then singles until So
I train about 9 10 times per week. Um
that's training like a pro. Training
like a professional. That's how I would
go about that. Yeah.
>> Now next move. Can you show me how you
do a clean pull?
>> Similar thing to the clean. This time
I'm just not jumping under the barbell.
I'm just going to get it to the top and
shrug at the top. So again, same
position in the start. Setting my
shoulders over, chin up, back nice and
tight here. Shrug at the top. So if I
wanted to jump under a clean, I just
jump under. So it's the same principle,
same position like that.
At the top.
Yeah.
>> Does that work for a dead lift though?
>> Well, you know, there's a lot of
principles that are very much the same.
So body alignment and all those things.
A lot of similarities.
>> Sure. But the first thing that I would
say here is comparing this to and and
you did the right thing with the your
deadlift video is you did it with bare
feet.
>> So I would say so these shoes here
that's weightlifting shoes. People call
them squat shoes but it's a
weightlifting shoe. Right.
>> So that's an elevated heel.
>> Um and they're the older ones. Those
ones are like over a grand or something.
You can't
>> two two and a half.
>> Yeah. Right. So [laughter] that's the
collector's edition.
>> Thought I'd whip out the big ones for
the good.
>> Yeah. 080 stars. 2008 Beijing Olympics.
So not many of these. You had a pair
back in the day.
>> I had a pair and I threw them out
because I thought they were
>> Yes, I did. [laughter] I just thought
they were my old ones and I upgraded to
the new ones.
>> You want to be a pro. You got to use
these.
>> That's why I never became a pro, I
guess. [laughter]
>> Okay. So, you did um a deadlift bare
feet, which is the exact correct
footwear for a deadlift. Imagine that's
275 kg. So, get in the right kind of
like head space as well of how you would
approach that bar and pick it up.
>> Okay.
Yeah.
Okay. So, [laughter] my first thought
was, okay, you did it again. All right.
So, so what what are the things that he
did and how would I change that
>> to make it a deadlift? So, the first
thing that he did was his stance was,
you know, that's you know, as he said,
toes pointed very slightly outwards.
>> Great. You know, we've got a nice open
hip position. Um, but this stance here
in my opinion is is wider than necessary
because we don't like I'm sure that
you're factoring in how are you going to
catch that bar when you do a clean and
how are you going to squat into position
when you do that clean. We're not doing
a squat. You're not catching that bar.
So therefore,
>> the stance, you don't need to be that
wide. So what I like to say is it's not
just about the hip drive. So that's a
huge factor, but it's also about where
your arms are going to be placed on the
outside of that. So when your feet are
this wide and toes pointing outwards as
well, so that's fine, but the knees need
to follow in the same direction. So when
we're here, the arms need to go on the
outside of that. And if you have a look
at the angle of my arms, they're pointed
very slightly outwards. So an example,
an exaggerated example is a snatch,
grip, deadlift. I'll use that as an
accessory to increase the range of
motion because I'm shortening my arms.
The most efficient position is where
your arms are actually straight down. I
can't go straight down with my feet
here. So that's what I factor in. It's
like hip width is perfect. I'm not just
prioritizing the grip. I'm factoring it
in, but the priority is leg drive. And
you can get optimal leg drive with a hip
width stance. Now hipwidth stance and
arms on the outside of that. So have a
look at that. Now my arms are straight
down. Therefore, I'm traveling probably
less by about an inch.
>> Wow. Okay. So, I'm going to give you two
in of range of motion by going one in
comes from the bendy barbell, the dead
lift bar, and another inch comes from
bringing your stance in and bringing
your grip in. So, your arms are now
straight down. There was one more thing
that you did.
>> Okay.
>> The shrug.
>> Oh, I still did it.
>> You still did it. That's what I was
thinking. That's That's what I was
thinking when I said he did it again,
right? So, he just he grabbed it and
just went boom because it weighs not
much for this guy. You know what I mean?
So, he's just going boom.
>> So, this is what I like to do is stay
standing. Yeah,
>> that's how it should feel with your arms
just hanging like that, sagging.
>> So, head to ceiling and arms just
dropped. So, none of this.
>> Boom. Okay,
>> so let's do it again. This time, stand
with your feet hipwidth. So, a little
bit closer. A little bit closer. A
little bit closer.
>> And feet straight ahead. We don't need
them pointing outwards.
>> Straight ahead.
>> Yeah, straight ahead. Yep.
>> Now, arms straight down on the outside
of your legs.
>> Right. So, that's probably going to be
like exactly where this line is. So
maybe like half a centimeter on the
outside of that. Good. So we've got a
slightly closer grip now. So the cue
that I have, you're probably doing it
anyway. The cue that I have is to pull
the armpits towards the pelvis, which
keeps that barbell in contact with your
with your body. And then take a big
breath to brace. And then just stand. No
shrugging. No shrugging. Let those arms
relax. Good. Now do it again so we get
used to that. Just stand. Don't jump.
It's not explosive like a weightlifting.
Clean. Good. That's beautiful. That's so
refined. That's clean. That's called
smooth. smooth stand. It's not as if I
want you to move slowly.
>> It's like if you were to stand out of a
chair.
>> Yep.
>> How do you do it? Do you jump in the
air?
>> No.
>> You [laughter] just stand. So that's
what I want you to do. So with 100 kg,
just stand.
>> But then the next weight, just stand.
>> And every consecutive weight, I want you
to think
>> the way that it was taught to me by
powerlifting legend Boris Shico is the
difference between powerlifting and
weightlifting. With a weightlifter,
you'd look at 100 kilograms and maybe
put like 140, 160 kg of force through
that ground.
>> Yeah.
>> With powerlifting, if it's 100
kilograms, you put just enough force
through the ground to pick up 100 kg.
>> So, you're pulling according to the
weight. So, if it's 100 kg, you're
pulling it like it's 100 kg. Might be
like 30 40% of your
>> treat it like it's 100 kg. You're
treating that when you do a clean,
you're treating that like it's 160
maybe.
>> Trying to put as much power in as
possible.
>> I don't need that. What I because that
takes you out of position. So in the
video, he didn't do it now because he
didn't see him kind of come up on his
s.
>> It's very useful in a clean
>> very not useful in a [laughter] in a
deadlift, right?
>> Big difference.
>> So let's lose the thought of being
explosive.
>> And change that to the thought of being
smooth.
>> Okay. So let's do it one more time
before I change the barbell next. All
right. So, we'll come to the bar with
your feet about hipwidth, toes pointing
very, very much straight ahead. Arms
straight down just on the outside of
your legs.
>> Pull the armpits towards the pelvis.
Reach the crown of the head towards the
ceiling. Take a big breath to brace and
stand.
Ah, no shrug. No shrug. Armpits towards
the pel. Now, stop. Stop. Stop. Stand up
again. Let go. I the ceue that I use
that's the weightlifting cue that you've
[laughter] got with with the head
position is you want to be upright when
you catch that to be in the front squat.
So you're I say crown of the head to the
ceiling and you you were here that's
head up.
>> So what I want with the deadlift is
>> I want you to think about reaching the
head towards the ceiling. And the way
that you do it crown of the head I want
you to think kind of like the back of
your head
>> where you are if you think about the
torso angles here and then your head is
here. So it's kind of not comfortable.
What I want you to do instead is think
about how the that cute crown of the
head of the ceiling influences the
elongation of the torso.
>> Right? So watch me. Don't look up.
>> I want you to reach the crown of the
head towards the ceiling. Okay. So the
chin is slightly tucked.
>> Big difference. Yeah.
>> So what I like to do is for you, you've
got great mobility. I'd say I'd pick a
spot about 4 m. So the bench there
>> and look at that from start to finish.
Okay.
>> Okay.
>> Let's try it again. Sure. All right.
Down.
>> Okay. That's a good stance. Arm straight
down. [sighs and gasps] Eyes on that
spot. Reach the crown of your head
towards the ceiling. Good. Armpits to
pelvis. Stand. No shrug.
Beautiful.
One more. Armpits stand.
That's good. That's good. No.
>> You're looking like a powerlifter,
brother. You reckon? I just
>> I just [laughter]
I just want to do that.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> Oh, man. Next up, I'm going to change
bars now.
>> Oh, I'm scared.
>> Now, can I get you to do me a favor?
>> Have a drink because now
>> this is the difference with coaching and
performance for YouTube
>> is I want your head on because I'm going
to make you go heavy today cuz I'm just
looking at you deadlifting going,
"That's sick."
>> Okay?
>> So, I want your head on for this. All
right? So, have a drink, get your head
on, and I'm going to do these plates.
>> There's a very big difference between
100 kg and 300. Right? So, like it's
very easy to look at that and say, "He's
got 300 easily." But I don't want to
bite off more than we can chew. I like
to underpromise and overd deliver. Not
the other way around. I would easily say
based on the 275 that he did is if he's
in that form today, 300 will come up.
[sighs]
But
300 kg deadlift is no joke. You know
what weight class are you in? 89.
>> I weigh 86. 86 and 12 kilos. [snorts]
>> You know what I mean? Like
>> Yeah. That's That's 3 point something
times body weight.
>> Damn.
The first time I did a 300 kg deadlift
as a power lifter. I was 90 kg.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> As a power lifter. That's all I
practiced.
>> Y.
>> So he's at 86 kg. Doesn't lift. When I
say doesn't lift heavy, think about
relativity here.
>> The most weight you're pulling is 210
kg.
>> He doesn't practice lifting heavy. Can I
ask you, how did that feel in your
hands? A lot of the times when people
max out and they're not used to it, it's
just like a shock with a heavy weight in
your arms.
>> It It felt fine. I didn't feel I mean,
the hook grip I feel is a very secure
grip for me.
>> Um, but I was going to ask Dave, do we
wear straps or what's the go with that?
>> You're allowed to. In powering comp you
can't, but like in strongman you can.
>> Let's do it. Then the other question I
was going to ask though is bumper
plates. So, we're using these are Alco
Olympic lifting bump plates. What about
calibrated? Like what's the is there a
difference?
>> A lot of people call these ones
calibrated, but the weightlifting ones
are calibrated as well.
>> Oh, that's true.
>> So that's that's exactly the right way.
>> Steel versus rubber, I guess. Right.
>> So bumper plate versus a powerlifting
plate.
>> Y
>> I'm going to be honest with you. That's
got to allow even more bend. So this is
me cheating and being a bit cheeky.
>> Yeah.
>> Because that's going to make that bar go
>> and it'll just look cooler for the
camera, right?
>> And when you're showing Instagram, which
is what you better believe I'm going to
be doing. [laughter] If I show 300 kg of
plates with powerlifting plates, it's
going to come out to here and people are
just going to look past it and not
realize how impressive it is.
>> But today, what you're going to do is
the plates are going to go all the way
out to here. Wow.
>> And people are going to go, "All right,
>> oh my goodness, you can't even fit any
more plates on the bar." So, that's what
we're going to be doing. Here's the
thing with this bar. So, there's two
techniques. One that you used and one
that I want you to use.
>> What you use, I would call that grip and
rip. So, that's why I said I love the
aggression. You come up and there's no
nonsense. You pick it up. One of my
favorite weightlifters, Ilia Ilian.
>> He's kind of a nononsense guy. It
reminds me of you. Just go walk in and
boom.
>> No business.
>> Yeah.
>> Sick. [laughter] However, I want you not
to do do that today,
>> especially with this bar. So, what I
want you to do when you come up here,
what I want you to do is is when we get
to this position, I want you to take the
slack out of the bar before you stand.
>> Right. Got it.
>> Okay. So, it's not just from here, you
just went boom.
>> So, I want you to bend the bar, then
stand.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Wow. Okay.
>> Okay. slow and smooth off the ground.
>> Yep. Okay.
>> Um, repetitions wise, are we just doing
like double? I mean,
>> let's go two reps.
>> Okay, two reps. Cool.
>> So, two reps just to familiarize
yourself with the movement. Now, here's
what I would say. You don't need more
repetitions than that because you're
pretty much warm.
>> Starting to scare me a bit. So, we
usually do fives, like lots of reps of
weight.
>> Okay. [laughter]
>> So, but we're going up.
>> The idea is just technical refinement.
So, if your technique is wrong,
>> so if you're doing something like a
shrug,
>> I'm not going to add more weight and
then say fix that on the next set. I'm
going to say fix it now. So, here's a
principle that I have. You need to earn
the right to add weight to the bar. So,
if you if there's a technical cue that I
need to change, I'm not going to say you
did this wrong. Let's add weight and fix
it. No, let's do it until you fix it.
>> So, one or two reps is all I need. If
the technique is if I need to change
something, I'll keep that same one and
I'll get you more.
>> Same principles as Olympic
weightlifting. You earn the right to go
up in weight. If the technique and
position is not where it needs to be, we
need to address it with lighter weights.
Once it's a bit more proficient, we can
move up.
>> Yeah.
>> Great strategy.
>> Love that. All right.
>> Okay. So, feet closer. Remember, feet
closer and toes pointing straight ahead.
>> Yep.
>> Good. Hands on the outside of that.
Sitting into position. Remember where
you're looking. 4 meters on the floor
ahead of you. Armpits the pelvis. Now,
bend the bar. So, stretch. Now, stand.
Good. One more. No shrug.
Slowly. Smooth. Not slowly. Smooth.
Beautiful. One more. That's still a
little bit of a shrug. Arms hanging.
Arms hanging. Just stand. Just stand.
That's better. And relax.
>> Oh man, I just want to I've never done
this before, but it feels so much
better. Wow.
>> That's smooth.
>> Smooth. I think that really works for
me. Smooth. Smooth. Not fast.
>> It's also not slow. So, I've had people
come to me and they're like, "What's
your deal with your approach with
deadlifts? Why do you teach slow?" I
don't teach slow. I just teach slower
relative to your explosive attempt. So,
it's not slow.
>> How do you stand out of a chair? Slow or
fast? Well, you're not measuring it. You
just stand. Yeah, exactly.
>> That's what I want with this. From here,
stand. So, I say stand with intent.
>> Okay. So, so let's go back to I want you
to visualize what you're doing. You're
here and you're going
>> boom.
>> Let's do that.
>> Now, here's the next thing is I don't
want your arms just hanging. I know a
lot of weightlifterss, they do this so
their arms are just hanging.
>> Yeah. We try to stay loose cuz we don't
want any tension in our arms.
>> Perfect.
>> I used to do that with a with a deadlift
as well, but now I've changed my my tune
on this.
>> I say I want your arms actively reaching
down.
>> Okay.
>> So, that's where I want you reach down.
>> Yep.
>> Reach your hands down. Reach your head
to the ceiling. And then stand. Still
keep reaching. So, your arms up hanging.
>> That's where I want you. Not here.
>> Yeah.
>> I want you to give me one perfect rep on
this way. I'm not going to go up.
>> I want you to get it perfect the first
time because then I'm going to go to 180
next. Okay.
>> Okay. So, no talking. You're just going
to do the lift and factor in everything.
You're going to know where you're
looking. Arms reaching down and stand
like you're standing out of a chair.
Hands a bit closer. Hands a little bit
closer. Good. Reaching down.
[sighs]
Love it.
>> Yes. Let's [laughter] go.
>> You love it. do much mobility stuff in
powerlifting like before like
deadlifting.
>> Do you or should you? They're two
different answers, right? So, do I? No.
I'm as stiff as a barbell. Um, but it
would absolutely benefit to do some
mobility work. We don't need as much
mobility as you. And I would say a lot
of mobility for powerlifting is more
just about long-term joint health.
>> So, if you don't work on your mobility,
use it or lose it principle applies. And
that's something with me is I never
factored in mobility for my
powerlifting. And I just thought just
doing the powerlifting work, I'm just
going to keep on being as mobile as I
need for powerlifting. But I'll tell you
now, with the strength work that I do,
my mobility has decreased.
>> Yeah. So now I I need to warm up my
shoulders to even hold a barbell.
>> Wow.
>> So when I squat, if you ever see me, I
grab the barbell from collar to collar.
>> Yeah. See, I'm I'm just like
>> because I [laughter] neglected my
shoulder mobility.
>> Okay.
>> Um where my cue is to hold the barbell
as close as shoulder mobility allows.
>> But for me, that's as close as my
shoulder mobility allows. So now my lack
of mobility is interfering with my
ability to power.
>> Sure. Right. See, I find it fascinating
powerlifting because don't isn't the age
of peaking a little bit different? Seen
weightlifting, most elite level lifters
peak around their mid 20s, maybe late
20s. After that, that's sort of maximal
power reach. So you're kind of going
down. But I've seen power lifters hit
like bench press world records at like
close to 50. Like what's the go with
that? Like
>> Well, I would say so the first person
that I used to talk about is a fellow by
the name of Andre Milanic. So nowadays
the world record holder is Colton Engle.
He's he's quite young and he's got more
in him. He's got many years to go.
>> But but Andre Milan was 38 years old.
How do I explain that? It's my theory.
I'll tell you my theory.
>> Yeah.
>> It's not just about how old you are.
It's how many hours you spend under a
barbell. So how many hours a week you
spending training weightlifting? Well,
let's say how many sessions you said?
Nine.
>> 25 30 hours in total. Yeah.
>> So a powerlifter will do three to four
sessions a week. Maybe 2 hours a
session.
>> What?
>> Right. So the repetitions are a lot
lower. So I would say you accumulate
twice the amount of years in in the same
amount of time. So true.
>> So it's I don't think it's age that's
the limiting factor. Yeah, you're right.
I think that it's exposure to the
movement and and and kilometers on the
clock. You could say cuz we need to
train so frequently in Olympic lifting.
I can tell with powerlifting,
weightlifting, the differences there is
the frequency of the training. So if I'm
training to my mid20s and I've trained
for 10 years, I've probably done 25
years of powerlifting training. Right.
>> Precisely.
>> Ah okay. I think that's so age isn't the
Yeah, that's really interesting.
>> That's what I think is the biggest
difference between powerlifters reaching
their peak at a at an older age to w
weightlifters who reach their peak at a
younger age. Next up, we're going to do
180.
>> Okay.
>> And now full focus, bro. I want you
perfect on the first rep, but if you
don't, we have to repeat it.
>> Ah, damn. All right, we'll get it right.
No shrug. No shrug.
>> So, the biggest thing is exactly that.
No shrug. Reach your hands down.
>> Hands down. All right.
>> Hipwidth stance. Perfect.
Grip more narrow.
>> Good.
Eyes 4 m in front. Armpits. Reach down.
Reach down. Stand with intent. Reach
down. Beautiful.
>> Yeah.
Nice. So good.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. All right.
>> Um, now here's the next thing. Uh, belt.
>> Yeah, I'd love to put a belt on. I would
love you to as well because for me it's
like you don't you know if you did a
powerlifting competition and got a world
record without a belt it doesn't say
anywhere on the record books whether you
use a belt or not. For me if I want you
to perform the best possibly
>> I just want to tick all boxes.
>> Weightlifting belt or powerlifting belt.
What if
>> if I gave you a powerlifting belt it
might take a little bit of a while to
familiarize yourself one. [laughter]
>> So well let's just have a look at
something. Just show me where you'd put
it on for a clean snatch
>> because I put it on differently for my
deadlift. Okay. Um, I'm just going to
sort of put it on the top of my hip
crease, sort of sitting on my belly
button, like
>> that's right where I'm going to put it
there.
>> Yeah. Is that normal? No,
>> it [laughter] it is for weightlifting
for sure because it needs to be like you
got such extreme ranges of motion with
the full depth squats that you can't let
that get in the way with your ribs or
pinch the
>> When I'm pulling the bar, it's got to
still Yeah.
>> Yeah. But with the deadlift, you don't
need it like that. So, for me,
>> okay,
>> I'm just going to try something.
>> Okay. Um, [laughter]
give me my belt. So, it's a looser belt
that I use. Where's the send it belt? Is
that over there? Okay. So, what I like
to do with deadlifting is use a higher
belt position.
>> Wow. I'm scared. [laughter]
>> But it's not tight. See, it's quite
loose.
>> But then from here, I brace into it.
>> Yeah. Got it. Got it. Got it. Got it.
Yeah. Now it's tight.
>> Right. So, in weightlifting, the way
that you did it, you just kind of pulled
it tight around your waist.
>> But that Velcro belt is quite flexible.
>> Yeah.
>> This has no flex in it.
>> Okay. So, [snorts]
>> yeah, that won't expand as [laughter]
you push into it. You're going to push
into it. Okay. So, don't go full tight.
>> Okay.
>> But go, you know, moderate.
>> Yeah.
>> But then, and now that must sit over the
top. Uh, suck your guts in. Go here.
Over the top of your ribs so it doesn't
dig in.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Not too tight. Not too
tight.
>> Just a little bit.
>> And then you make it tight by big
expand.
>> Ah, yeah. And breathe into it.
>> Yeah. Got it. Now to familiarize
yourself with that. So that's it. Now
let's do the deadlift from here. So take
a big breath.
>> Bend over and just make sure it feels
comfortable and stand.
>> Is that comfortable? It's not digging
in.
>> No, no, that's fine. Yeah.
>> Let's just try this 180 again.
>> Okay. Sure.
>> Armpits reached down. Reach down.
>> Yeah. Beautiful.
>> Okay. Yeah. I see. I see.
>> Did you feel the support?
>> Yeah. Wow. Yeah.
>> Excellent.
>> Yeah. Huge difference.
>> Okay. Great. Now, a lot of people take
time to learn how to use a belt. Um, and
I was open to Kyle not getting it first
go. Um, but I'm lucky he's an elite
athlete [laughter]
and he's very coordinated and uh, first
time lucky. Hey,
>> 100%.
>> You're making me look good, brother.
[laughter]
>> I mean, anything more than 275 would be
a bonus. That's what I did before. 300
would be great, but I'm also very
realistic with myself. Um, I'm just here
to learn. Whatever. We'll see. I find
low expectations equals high results.
And this has always been my approach
when it comes to competing, even at the
Olympic level. You know, I know where I
want to be. So maybe today, yeah, I'd
love to do 300, but if I could do even 1
kg more than what I've done before, I'm
happy with that. So that low expectation
will probably lead to a higher result.
Whereas if I came in today and I'm like
300, 300, 300, 300, I keep thinking
about it all night. I can't sleep about
it. I keep thinking about it, and then I
can't do it, I'm just going to be upset
and disappointed. So low expectations
equals high results. That's my opinion.
So we'll see what happens.
>> So being completely fair, I want to get
tick all boxes.
>> Tell me.
>> You engaged from from here. You did all
of the cues, but the last queue is slack
out of the bar. So I want to see that
bar band
>> and then you stand.
>> So it's creating tension through your
entire body.
>> Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah.
>> Okay. So when you think of that queue,
when I said reach the crown of your head
to the ceiling, it's not just that's why
I say it's not just about looking up.
It's about imagine I'm grabbing you by
the head and pricking you up as hard as
you can. So, what's that going to feel
like? It's going to go.
>> It's going to stretch.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. That's that's what I want you to
feel.
>> Um, what's the rest period like? Cuz
weightlifting, it's like 1 minute, touch
the wall, come
>> like you saw me when I did that squat
session with you like a while back,
right? It was just kind of like boom,
>> just training, training, training stuff.
>> Is it the same in pallet?
>> No, it's not the same.
>> Oh, it's not. Okay. Now, for for this
level here, what I like to say is
however long it takes to be putting the
plates on the butt, which is like one
minute, and I'm not rushing it. Maybe 2
minutes, that's fine. But then I would
say now we're getting towards the
heavier end. So 220 needs a little bit
more respect. The next plate is probably
going to be 260
>> and then that's even more respect. So
therefore, I'm going to say between 220
and 260, we'll time it
>> and we'll probably say 4 minutes. And
then from 260, I don't know where we're
going to go from there.
>> We'll see. Um
>> maybe 280. Yeah, maybe. I mean, whatever
you choose.
>> Then maybe then we'll increase the rest
again.
>> Okay. So, it's definitely not going to
be 1 minute from here. So, the only
difference is slack out of the bar.
>> Slack out of the bar.
>> Yep.
>> Okay.
>> Hipwidth stance. Good.
Hands a bit closer than usual. Good.
Reaching down. Reach the head to the
ceiling.
Head to the ceiling. Beautiful.
>> Just one.
>> That was better.
>> Yeah, bro. There is still an explosion
which is like [laughter] it's not a bad
thing. It's like there's probably going
to be people watching
>> making you look bad.
>> Yeah. Don't not making me look bad. Kind
of like giving the wrong advice is
telling you to not be explosive.
>> It just doesn't I just It's my brain
just says no. [laughter]
>> I don't want you to be slow.
>> I want you to be smooth. Right.
>> So, there's another saying, slow is
smooth, smooth is fast.
>> What speed do you think 300's going to
move at? Do you think it's going to
explode up?
>> I mean, if it moved like that, I would
be freaking happy. No, it's
>> it's not going to explode. No,
>> it's going to be You're going to have to
work.
>> Yeah, for sure.
>> Right. And the bar speed is going to be
slower than that, for sure.
>> Y
>> So, don't try and move at a speed that's
just not going to happen.
>> No, for sure.
>> Right. So, think about
>> standing with intent.
>> Okay. I I need you to work, but don't
try and thump it off the ground because
usually that thump off the ground takes
you out of position.
>> Now, here's something that I think as a
non-weight lifter that I've kind of, you
know, noticed with a lot of
weightlifting, it's like maintain that
position because if you're too
explosive, that's when things like the
hips shoot up
>> and you kind of go boom, hits up and
you're out of position. So, even from
weightlifting can benefit from even just
like got making like it's not about
being slow. It's about maintaining
position at all costs. maintain position
and then explode. There's a huge debate
in weightlifting. Is a static start
better where we're fixing the position
and there's minimal chance of us getting
out of position or is a dynamic start
more efficient. Like we look at pros and
cons. Dynamic it's faster, it feels
easier for weightlifting, but static it
feels heavier but the position's better.
I guess each lifter has to define what
works better for them. And that's the
beautiful thing about I'm sure
powerlifting and weightlifting about
weight powerlifting as well. And my
opinion is
>> it depends on the individual course.
>> So that's how I see you. It's like, ah,
you are one of those explosive guys.
>> That's kind of how I get away with my
weightlifting. It's just my speed and
>> therefore I don't know if I want to take
that out of you today.
>> Yeah. Point your style, right? Yep. Yep.
>> So, next up, you just did 220. Um,
>> you know what I'm going to do? I'm going
to be more conservative. So, that was 40
kilo jumps. We're going to do a 30 kilo
jump.
>> Okay.
>> That way, we can go Yep.
>> 250, 280. Okay. Okay. And then if the
280 is looking good, reaching down.
Take the slack out of the bar. Head to
ceiling. Stretch.
Okay.
[sighs]
>> Still shrugged.
>> Yeah, he [laughter] did still shrug.
[clears throat]
It's brutally strong.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> but that shrug's still there.
>> This is the hard thing. It's when you
get that weight in your hand, your body
just goes autopilot. I got to do what it
takes to get this up. I'm still
listening. Just But I felt good. I think
280 is all right.
>> You know, I know 280 is up. So, so let's
not make a promise with 300. Don't
shrug. Take the slack out. Keep it
smooth because all of those things, what
happens as well is with especially with
the bendy whippy bar and these bumper
plates. Sometimes the whip can be a
deterrent.
>> Yeah. I'm not used to that. It does feel
a lot more whippier. Yeah. And I
understand now why you're saying pull
the slack. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So that's why I want it to be
smooth because I don't want that bar to
throw you out of position. You're right.
You're right.
>> That just then that bar kind of went
like this.
>> Yeah, it did. I noticed that I I didn't
pull the slack enough and then set like
that. Okay.
>> But then the aggression at the top, it
was it's bouncing at the top
>> like past the knee, it's not a problem
for me. It's just getting it to there. I
feel like once I get there, it's not a
problem. So I know in dead a lot of
deadlifters struggle with the lockout,
right? But I feel like with Olympic
lifting, I'm so used to pulling back
aggressively, it's not really a problem.
So let's just get it past the knee.
>> It's also not a problem because you're
lifting a lot of weight.
>> Yeah, exactly. So, let me tell you
something about the lockout weakness in
powerlifting. It's caused by being taken
[music] out of position from the floor.
So, that's usually people that have that
grip and rip technique. When you [music]
whack it off the floor, it pulls you
into that fishing rod where the back
just goes whack.
>> That's not the position for a strong
lockout. So, what happens is you go
here, you lock out the hips, but then
all of a sudden you have to straighten
your back and that's weak.
>> So, I need you to maintain that position
so that it's
>> Yeah, I see. I see what I did wrong on
that. make the adjustment like, "Oh, it
won't move. I need to do it right."
>> Yeah.
>> We are now in the realm of each of these
reps are now going to contribute to your
fatigue.
>> Yeah.
>> So, to get the 280, we just have to put
up a prayer.
>> Yeah. Let's just put 280 up. Let's
>> Because I know that you can.
>> I'll do it.
>> The prayer is don't shrug.
>> Okay. Let's save Let's save those traps
for hopefully 300.
>> Take a seat cuz now I want you to rest
about, you know, 6 minutes.
>> Maybe rest two and a half if I'm doing
what you're listening.
Yeah, but it definitely it gets to the
point where it gets heavier where yeah,
that technique is so important. If I
make that that mistake, then you're
definitely not going to get that.
Position is really important in
weightlifting, but like you said, the
weight difference like if I'm out of
position on this, this is ain't going to
move. You know, in weightlifting, I I
could be a little bit out of position. I
could probably still rough front racket,
still get in the clean like that, but
you know, 200 kg, even 210 is bit
different to 280. So, I got to get this
right.
>> But even still with your weightlifting,
the heavier the load, the less the room
for error.
>> Yeah, for sure. I'm sure we're like
>> it's the same principles. Yeah.
>> If you're going for a 210 clean and
jerk, you're going to pray that that's
[__] precise.
>> Well, if it's not, I won't do it.
>> So, now we're working towards like 280
is technically a PB.
>> Yep. That would be a 5 kg PB.
>> So, so therefore, this is at your upper
like.1% within your range of strength.
Yep.
>> So, therefore, the technique needs to be
on.
>> We'll make it. Yeah. I know I'm going to
do this,
>> but it's you know, how nicely can I do
it? If I want to try 300,
>> it needs to be nice.
>> If I don't if I don't if I don't make
this nice, we're not going to have to
try that. So, yeah. No, absolutely.
>> Okay. You know what you've got to do?
>> It's time to get it up.
>> Hey,
time to work.
[sighs]
>> Smooth. [screaming] Yeah,
mate. [sighs]
Okay, [laughter]
that was all right. Excuse my
excitement.
>> Hey, bro. 300's there if you want it,
man.
>> Let's put it on.
>> [__] yeah.
>> All right, let's do it.
>> Now, here's the deal. No talking. You
sit down. I'm going to put my timer on
and you got 8 minutes. I know this is
outrageous amount of rest. Yeah, bro.
I'm on this, man. Okay, that was [__]
beautiful. You're the coach. Excuse my
language.
W That made me happy. You know why it
made me happy because how the That's
what I said. You got to earn the right
to add weight to the bar. He didn't earn
the right after the 250. So, I broke my
rules. But it's like it's not really
breaking my rules cuz I say at that
level, each rep is now contributing to
more fatigue. And I don't want to spend
time practicing a technique on 250 kg
deadlift. You get one shot now.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> But that one there, I'll tell you now,
it's time to [__] work, right? It's
there if you want it. You just got to
[__] work. Okay. For sure. We'll make
it. I got a bit of adrenaline from that.
We're going to get this, brother. We're
going to get this. you haven't lifted
this weight, you're going to get to the
point where it's [__] hard. And
that's supposed to be that way. It's
going to slow down. It doesn't mean it's
over. It's going to slow down. You keep
going. Right? So, a lot of the times
when I'm screaming out, it's like, don't
you [__] stop. You keep going. Let's
get this car. Come on.
It's time to work.
Let's do it. Same thing, nothing
different. Let's do this, brother. Come
on.
Yes. Yes. [screaming] Yes. Yeah. YEAH.
[__] YEAH. YOU'RE A BEAST, [screaming]
MATE. [__]
>> [__] beast, bro. [laughter]
>> Oh my god.
>> Damn.
>> Oh, [__] Those
>> That's fatiguing. [__]
>> Sick.
>> That's You're a beast, bro.
>> I know why he's don't train.
>> [__]
>> Yeah, you get two weeks off after that,
brother.
>> Is that okay?
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> I'm actually like I'm seeing stars.
>> That was sick.
>> Oh, my face is red.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> All right.
>> You're an animal, man.
>> Should we Should we go 3 2
>> No way. I'm done. I'm done. I retired.
That's it. [laughter]
Can you imagine if you if you trained
[__] that?
>> Oh, you reckon,
>> dude? With a proper warm up, proper
technical correction, proper positional
advice with a coach that knows what
they're doing.
>> You can get 300. Hey, maybe we'll do
powerlifting in the future.
>> Maybe, bro, maybe we'll teach you a low
bar squat next.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Maybe not yet. [laughter]
>> Okay, so that was 3.5 times body weight.
>> Okay. Is that all right? Okay.
>> That's sick is what it is.
>> It's pretty cool. This is um
>> I say triple body weightight deadlift is
pretty damn elite.
>> Okay. Really?
>> Yeah. Especially conventional.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. So conventional we're talking sumo
is different rules. Let's forget that.
>> Yeah. Wow.
>> Three and a half times body weight
deadlift from someone who doesn't
deadlift.
>> Second deadlift session
>> is [laughter] sick, man.
>> Thanks so much for that, bro.
>> It's my pleasure, bro. Thank you, bro.
>> Thank you so much, man.
>> Thank you, man. Amazing.
>> You know, is this mean we add this to
your program? I'd say maybe sometimes,
but still like respect your sport.
>> I can see how this would be a great
tool, a great resource to add into the
program, but definitely not at that
weight.
>> You know, it doesn't have to be max.
That's the thing with deadlifts. It's
like, you know, people think deadlifts
are bad or whatever it is. Because most
people's approach to deadlifts is this
what we did is come in and max out. It's
like, no, no, no. The best deadlifterss
don't do that. They don't
>> they don't max out every session. They
peak. They build work capacity. They
build, you know, muscle in the
deadlifting muscles. I said to you, man,
I I haven't touched I kind of tweaked my
leg a little bit. I haven't touched more
than 150 kg before this, so 50%. We're
good.
>> Oh, good, man.
>> I'm going to play you your deadlift,
bro.
>> I could have pulled the slack a little
bit more.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, damn. Look at my face.
>> Yeah, bro.
>> Little bit of a reaction. [laughter]
>> That's a strong human.
>> A thanks, man. Wow, that's so cool.
>> I actually I genuinely didn't think I
could do it, man. I came in, like I said
before, I was like, I'd be really happy
with 280.
>> I even spoke to my partner this morning.
She was like, "Do you reckon you can do
it?" I said, "Honestly, 280 I'll be
really happy with. If we attempt 300 and
it moves 1 cm, I'm really happy."
>> So, like I said, lower the expectations.
Um, be realistic with your goals and
what you're aiming towards and bigger
outcomes usually come. You know, I had
the same mindset when I won a silver
medal at the Comwalth Games, when I went
to the Olympic Games. Didn't put any
pressure myself. I just went in there
and said, "You know what? All the
training's been done. All the
preparation work's been done. We're just
going to go in there now and just have
fun with it, enjoy it. And that was kind
of my approach going to the session
today with Sebastian. Obviously, I knew
sort of what I was capable of. Um,
>> but yeah, I'm I'm I'm very pleased.
[laughter] I'm very pleased. Yeah, I'm
very pleased.
>> Love it.